that's true it's like one of those
things it seems trivially easy to
explain but it's such an easy error when
you're actually having a discussion
Isaac do you do you feel that you talk
to a lot of people who are sincerely
interested in discussing ethics of the
sake of ethics okay Mike my feeling is
that most people what they care about is
feeling important feeling smart feeling
good feeling self-esteem feeling pride
and that's one of the reasons why I
think talking about virtue ethics I mean
I think virtue ethics appeals to people
because of its it's not as ethical it
appears appeals more to egoism and I I
just think it's very rare to talk to
people I mean even what you're just
mentioning D railing into meta ethics I
think it shows a fundamental lack of
interest in ethics but people I interact
with some really high percentage of them
are genuine it's more like a statement
where I talk to so many people
that for sure even if it's a radical
minority there's still enough people
that are legitimately interested in
ethics that I could say I talk to a lot
of people who are legitimately
interested in ever happening so again
this is totally gonna work over six foot
tall it's not that a big percent when
people are over six foot tall but if I
have a job where I talked like thousand
people a day then of course I talked a
lot of them even if they're minority of
the overall people so totally agree
totally understanding good other good
comparison is if you work in a in a
sneaker store you know you meet a lot of
people with size thirteen shoes or
whatever you know depending on when
you're in I think a lot of people don't
appreciate like it's very rare to talk
to a lot of vegans I've now talked to
thousands and thousands of vegans over
the last five years because so I just
asked this this totally you know
open-ended question it's not it's not a
gotcha question or something gee do you
find the same kind of thing when you
talk to people on the street because I
know you've done some Street activism
with with whatever with street activist
groups by the same yeah do you think
they're really interested in in ethics
as such or do you think it's something
else that's that's the hug that gets me
but that's also because the type of
activist might do when I do do it
there's the selection there's like a
filter there so I've only really done
activism what ad and when they need the
people who actually stay and watch it
how being slaughtered in front of them
usually some some good percentage of
things we're actually going to sit there
for that like to stand and watch it
actually you care so that's not to say
the average person on the street has
some evil concerns but when you select
those chunk of people who will stand
there and watch that some soup
significant portion of them actually
seem to be concerned about my what's
recently just kind of shocked me about
the role of egoism I mean I don't feel I
was under estimating the importance of
egoism but lately I've been talking to
this guy Faraday speaks Faraday speaks
had okay so Faraday speaks had one hit
YouTube video and it was covered by CNN
the New York Times he got the front page
in the New York Times so the story
itself is not mentioning it though but
he had a story about how the actual
title of video of the thumbnail said how
he became racist
it was dealing with him that he had a
period where he became more and more
right-wing more more racist from
watching YouTube videos but that that
was front page of the New York Times as
well as having CNN and other mainstream
press coverage in the number of viewers
that mainstream press coverage drove to
his YouTube channel was almost zero
whose unbelievable how little viewership
that you're beyond that made me sit back
and think wow because I remember I've
been doing the vegan YouTube game but
before you came on the scene and it used
to be if there was like some really
crappy coverage of veganism by Oprah or
by like an Australian newspaper or by a
British like one of the British
morning talk shows all of those would
drive so much traffic - like the whole
vegan ecosystem but also the particular
youtuber is mentioned and really maybe
stuff think wow those people like the
front page in the New York Times is not
as powerful as weight loss that like
I've been underestimate extent to which
all interest in our movement is you know
underwritten by vanity you know yeah one
ask you one thing about virtue ethics
like I know that there there clearly is
some kind of virtue component to your
ethical system but surely there is also
a consequential yes sure yeah so like
any question where you say you shouldn't
do this so so I I could I can argue my
against myself on this I think so I mean
like you know to attack myself more
vigorously you know if someone had a
virtue ethics that had no connection to
real-world consequences then by
definition they would be you know it
would be like someone who paints
paintings and thinks they're the
greatest painter in the world but nobody
wants to buy the paintings nobody wants
to see them it would it would be an ego
trip detach from reality right sure yeah
sure it just doesn't come up much you
know what how often do you have to deal
with somebody who thinks through a
really great artist
but nobody wants to buy or see their
work and how often deal with somebody
who thinks they were great athlete or
fashion model I mean we did I think we
did within the vegan movement sometimes
it's just most often any kind of virtue
is linked to real world utility your
outcomes in some way without you having
to argue for it yeah
just a philosophical because the Phillip
persons philosophically minded will be
like okay is per to necessarily coupled
to those components if it's non negative
situation right virtually the
consequences are really bad if the guy
just cares about virtue he asked they're
not aired and upon sponsor right so a
great example right well I think a great
example is vegan activism itself and to
throw in a really quick parallel
something like the Vietnam War you could
meet and talk to people who really
sincerely signed up to fight in the
Vietnam War because they felt the people
of Vietnam should have democracy and
freedom of speech and be able to vote
and elect their government and then what
they actually got involved with in the
Vietnam War might have been rape and
torture and massacres what they actually
did in Vietnam war might be shall we say
not so virtuous and you know I have
people writing me every day from
different angles just just lately for
whatever reason had a bunch more people
writing to me you know it's not constant
but it comes in EPS and flows and a
bunch will be writing to me about their
negative experiences vegan activism
Covino obviously they got involved for
ethical reasons and then a certain idea
of themselves as being virtuous or
become virtuous and at some point they
look back and say what what am I doing
here was this just by clicking you think
is the worst so for the record my
nickname here was Slayer of Ewoks but
you changed it that was busy and I just
changed it back without paying too much
attention so I'm happy to change mine to
came back to Slayer of Ewoks I hope she
wants me going who was the worst person
in veganism right now a spirit
[Laughter]
gee you know I got sympathy
I got sympathy for all that the terrible
people you know across the board but you
know what you know who would probably is
honestly it's probably Jeff Nelson it's
probably what is right now um both yes
so veg source yes that's right so I
guess I guess the reason for my saying
Jeff Nelson is both if you look at what
he is doing and what he's not doing so
like the negative impact he's having and
also the tremendous potential or ability
as he's linked positive and that that
that's not happening you know that
that's being squandered so yeah you may
not know but lately he's engaged in one
dishonest squabble after another
attacking the credibility of different
vegan medical doctors and claiming that
he's standing up for science versus
pseudoscience and it's really janky so
yeah he has a long history of this and
you know he took me on too you know
denouncing me publicly and stuff too
which is not that big a deal
I mean but still he has this long weird
history of being um kind of drama queen
and the thing is he does have a kind of
position of privilege and influence and
power partly because he's based in LA
he's the guy who organizes the the
annual LA veg fest and probably cuz he's
been the game for so long he were he ran
the website veg source before he came on
youtube so yeah that's an influential
powerful person who has been I guess a
bad actor in political science terms
well so it's one thing after another but
recently for example he tried to make a
big deal out of accusing accusing the
doctors of being motivated by selling
supplements and that the doctors are
lying about the health benefits for
vegans taking I believe DHA supplements
other some of those special special fad
supplements that attacking doctors for
you know allegedly being self-interested
money motivated he had another series of
videos these are
just looking at its channel there's like
so much about that's right that's right
and the funny thing is it's also you
must review and I'm sure you really
you're just looking at it now ostensibly
it seems very you know well motivated
and if we write it like in terms of your
prima facie reaction you just see the
title so the videos like oh wow this is
really really important this critique of
something wrong and medicines and then
the other irony is so you know I just
did a video criticizing Jeff for the
diet he and his daughters now promote he
and his daughters together promote a
very peculiar to my head and there were
problems with it there are there are
scientific problems and in terms of the
effects in people's lives there are
there are problems too as my girlfriend
went to it well the diet that what they
did was the reason why it so just to be
clear the diet is co-written by his
daughters and in reality him he's very
much the force behind it and it also has
kind of introductions and comments and
endorsements from various more famous
medical authorities and it promises to
be the diet that will cure acne and
obviously it's primarily for a female
readership so in terms of what I'm gonna
ask the question what is the diet though
they basically took a doctor
MacDougall's most extreme diet and made
it a little bit more extreme cuz
mcdougal you know he has more than one
diet depending on what your what your
situation is but mcdougal mcdougal is
one diet that's called something like
the diet for maximum weight loss like
for people who are really trying to shed
a lot of weight which is you know so
anyway he mcdougal has a range of
recommendations but it is one of
MacDougall's recommendations and then
they step it up even further and add an
elimination element to it so for example
it starts off being a very very low
fruit diet you're very limited on a
fruity every day but then if it's not
working you eliminate fruit entirely and
in the same way you eliminate and
eliminate becomes more and more extreme
if you're not getting the results you
want but the promise that it'll cure
acne given that acne is hormonal for a
very significant percentage of women
it's gonna lead to a downward spiral for
other women so there are there are
problems with it I just went through
that with my girlfriend
[Music]
you're gonna make a claim with this diet
care that it should have some data right
right so I mean they do the thing is
with acne acne is one symptom caused by
many things so you know if you have acne
because kuku good man Richard yeah